Cellular Organism

Behaviors per organism:

Sporer
	Create new root
		If organism has a sporer, see if it makes sense to create a new root
		For each sporer, look at possible root locations
			Prioritize high protein proximity and away from my other organisms
	Create a new sporer
		Direction hints
			Point toward the center of the map
			Point away from my other organisms

Create harvestor
	If multiple, prioritize protein with lowest harvester count
Get at least 1 C and D



Need to track:
	harvester count on each protein type
	heatmap of areas to go to - number of proteins within 3 spaces that I haven't harvested

Interesting game seeds:
Resources far away, 2 root jumps needed
    -3194626388501203500
Closed map, many resources, race for middle - good for space denial win
    -562798768321121100
    6812241268562684000
Large sparse map, running out
    4881395176070566000
Large plentiful map
    2855407559329172500
    -1336280831540291300


--12/22/24 Rank 112 Bronze analysis and improvement ideas--
Movement
	Random placement should now look at how can we move towards the next protein
	Need to know when to bust through a protein to open up a big area - I can get boxed in easily
[Done]	With a group of proteins that I can only harvest 1 of, analyze best one to harvest - going based on lowest harvester count
[Done]  When I need to build an arbitrary entity, prioritize types that I have a very large number of proteins for
Sporer placement is terrible
	Prioritize early in the game - after updates, not sure if this is needed, spore locations are working well
[Done]	Check that we can afford a new root - 4+ of each resource?
[Done]	Consult heat map
		    Can we optimize this to prevent rechecking?
[Done]  Use existing sporer instead of creating new one if possible
Attacking
	When enemy has tentacle with empty space between, they will likely place another tentacle down - see if I can kill that one preemptively
	If we are 2 spaces away from an enemy, we can look at putting down a tentacle
Harvesting
[Done]	We place harvesters on existing harvesting proteins
[Done]	If we are out of A or B but can build a harvester, prioritize harvesting an A/B if possible instead of eating it (done by swapping order of behaviors)
[Done]	Multiple harvesters can be put down on the same turn for the same protein
Pathfinding
[Done]	Map from every point to every other point - distance and best direction?
[Done]	Need to reprocess portions when new walls are placed
            In the short term, can reprocess only a limited range of cells (within 5) of a new wall, longer distance pathing shouldn't matter if incorrect
Reconciliation
[Done]	List of outgoing and incoming organisms?
    		This way I can readjust the map based on new walls, analyze what the enemy built last turn
Space Denial - late game this is what I'll need for closed maps
	Maybe worth focusing on, if I get this right it will result in a win every time
	Analyze if there is 1 space to control to cut off most of the map, plan centers around getting that space
Tracking
[Done]	Harvesters harvesting protein





Pathfinding Algorithm
	Shortest path from every tile to every other tile - distance, next direction to go
	Need to update when new walls are created
	Calculate at the beginning of the game



--12/24/24 Rank 177 Silver analysis and improvement ideas--
Accomplished most of the previous list.
Notes about current state:
    I don't expand towards proteins I need
    My random movement doesn't go over proteins, so I get boxed in easily
    I sometimes lose because I get to a protein I need, but don't have enough to create a harvester and have to consume it
    I'm still only fighting when enemies are two cells away instead of three or four
    Expansion of new roots is good, likely much better than others my rank
    I ran into some trouble running out of processing time likely due to the pathing algorithm. Reduced the search depth, should be fine. May need to optimize down the road.
    If I run into any more timeouts, I need to add timers to pieces of the code to evaluate how long different pieces are taking
    I lose some games due to not recognizing that the board is locked and I need to take all spaces, no longer need to harvest proteins
    There are a couple of asserts now so bugs get detected more easily

Action Plan:
Behavior Scores
[Done]    I can move each behavior to giving a score, similar to the new spore / root attractiveness score. This way I can have an organism
    try a couple behaviors and pick the highest scoring. This will help in situations where I COULD create a harvester in the beginning
    of the game, but really it is important to build towards the middle for map control, etc. The build algorithm would recognise the
    importance of expansion and give a high score, while the harvester attractiveness score would be more standard.
Movement
[Done]    Need to have a prioritization plan similar to new root expansion.
[Done]    If there are very few of a protein on the map, give importance there
    In general, prioritize moving towards the enemies part of the map unless they can fight and we can't
    Need a couple of D harvesters (1-2?), many Bs and Cs for fighting.
    Cs double up on harvesters and tentacles, both important. Bs are needed for sporers, not as important, especially as the game moves on.
    Place arbitrary entities in a meaningful direction
Harvesters
    When can be placed in multiple spots, prioritize not blocking other proteins and going in a direction we want to go in
    Can create sprorer first turn and harvest next turn due to expansion, need expand logic to incorporate future harvesters
Attacking
    If I can't fight, don't expand towards the enemy. People's algorithms will typically fight when I come close.
[done]    Start fighting two spaces away.
Map Control
    On closed maps, take over the 2-3 points needed to win the game as early as possible
    Need code to calculate a couple jumps ahead, what resources are required to get to those choke points



--12/27/24 Rank 123 Gold analysis and improvement ideas--
Many of the previous observations are still relevant and need improvements.
General
    There are many things I should be calculating and caching every turn:
        My entities per root id
        Buildable neighbors per root id
        If a tile is harvested by me or an opponent
        If a tile is attacked by me or an opponent
Sporer
    Need to consider resources that I am currently 1 and 2 spaces away from when expanding. I had a game where I am close to many D proteins and expanded to more D proteins, had no Cs.
    I had this note above, but prioritization of different proteins based on the state of the game, don't treat all equally. I only need Ds if my harvester count is not where it should be. Cs are the most important.
    Reduce merit growing a sporer shooting somewhere we can already shoot to
    I'm spawning a spawner when I already have a similar spawner and don't have the protein income to support it
Attacking
    Being closer in descendant count to the root may be important - it means defending the root instead of attacking far out
Expanding
    Be careful about expanding for no reason early game and blocking spots that you will need for harvesting when protein count is low
Turn timeout
    Understanding when the 50ms turn timeout begins and ends
        Does the turn start after I give my last turn's commands, or right before or after I get the next turn's input?
        Is it a hard 50ms or do they give a grace period? I suspect they do.
    If I can get a good grip on how much time I have left in a turn, I can run calculations like expand pathfinding that is not complete


































